# Abstract storage, revamped component API, more robust etypes

No update was posted for 2020.02.30, and so this update covers the last four
weeks of development. Essentially what happened is that I started implementing
a significant feature, abstract storage, and it ended up in a PR that touches
most internals, cleaning the component API (how analysers and selectors are
written), and changing a significant number of tests. I'll cover all the
changes as comprehensively as I can in the rest of this update.

## Abstract storage
Before this cycle, storage in mtriage was hardcoded to use the filesystem of
the computer on which mtriage was running (written to a linux filesystem inside
a Docker container, and to the disk on the host system via volumes configured
in the other layer of mtriage). As we are looking to move to cloud deployments
of mtriage, abstract storage--the optionality to store media produced by
mtriage either locally, or elsewhere--is crucial.

Calls to read and write files were scattered throughout the implementations for
[mtmodule](src/lib/common/mtmodule.py), [analyser](src/lib/common/analyser.py),
and [selector](src/lib/common/selector.py). Moreover, the intermediate data
structures that each of these modules used to represent available media on disk
and various stages of the mtriage lifecycle were bloated and unsystematic.

In order to decouple storage from the local disk, I introduced a [Storage
API](src/lib/common/storage.py), which analysers and selectors interface with
to read and write elements persistently. While thinking through how components
ought to return elements to the mtriage runtime in order for persistent storage
to occur remotely rather than locally, I realised that, regardless of where
elements are ultimately stored, it makes sense for them to be readable and
writable locally to provide full flexibility from the component perspective.
In other words, in order that analysers and selectors can still deal with
elements _as if_ they are simply written on the local filesystem, analysers and
selectors still write media to disk on the computer where mtriage is running,
and return elements back to the mtriage runtime **by reference**, indicating
the paths where media that comprise elements reside. The mtriage runtime then,
by way of the Storage API, persists those elements in designated storage,
deleting the transitory local representations that were returned by
a component.

Modifying internals to make storage work in this way made it clear that the
component API (e.g. `Analyser.analyse_element`, and
`Selector.retrieve_element`) could be a lot more particular regarding inputs
and outputs. I implemented this by solidifying the way that Etypes work, so
that those functions can unanimously receive and return etypes to/from the
mtriage runtime.

## Revamped component API
Here's what the ConvertAudio analyser looks like after the rewrite:

```python
from lib.common.analyser import Analyser
from lib.common.exceptions import ElementShouldSkipError
from lib.common.etypes import Etype
from subprocess import call, STDOUT
from pathlib import Path
import os


class ConvertAudio(Analyser):
    def analyse_element(self, element: Etype.Audio, config) -> Etype.Audio:
        output_ext = config["output_ext"]

        FNULL = open(os.devnull, "w")
        output = f"/tmp/{element.id}.{output_ext}"
        # TODO: error handling
        out = call(
            ["ffmpeg", "-y", "-i", element.paths[0], output],
            stdout=FNULL,
            stderr=STDOUT,
        )
        self.logger(
            f"Converted '{element.id}' from {element.paths[0].suffix} to .{output_ext}"
        )
        return Etype.Audio(element.id, paths=[output])


module = ConvertAudio
```

Notably, the confusing functions `get_in_etype` and `get_out_etype` no longer
exist: those specifications are now covered using Python 3 function typing.
It's clear from the signature that the ConvertAudio analyser takes an element
of `Etype.Audio` as input, and produces an element of `Etype.Audio` as output.

Most importantly, the `analyse_element` function _returns a value that
represents the element it has produced_. Previously, element creation was done
implicitly through the creation of files, and `analyse_element` didn't return
anything explicitly. Now, it returns **an instance of an Etype**, which has
a standardised constructor that takes an element id (`str`) as is first
argument, and a path or list of paths as its second (optionally named). 

Note that the file structure for analysers has changed: there is no scaffolding
required via an '__init__.py'. Instead the module is registered simply through
the Javascript/Node-style export of assigning the `module` variable in the last
line. All a valid analyser (or selector) needs is a single 'core.py' file that
defines a `module` variable that contains a class which inherits from
`Analyser`.

Note also how the analyser still creates files locally. Instead of representing
groups of media as folders, however, analysers do so simply by passing
references/paths to the relevant files in an Etype's constructor.

## More robust etypes
Etypes are the operational heart of mtriage, and there's a fair bit of
implementation magic that goes on inside them. The basic idea is that each
Etype class offers a constructor that takes an string id and a path or set of
paths:

```python
a_json_element = Etype.Json("a_json_element", "path/to/myfile.json")
```

The Etype constructor checks all of the paths to ensure that they are valid,
optionally filters out certain paths, and throws an `EtypeCastError` if
something is up. 

There are two higher order etypes, `Union` and `Array`, which allow expressive
composition of etypes. For example, you can create an element that contains one
image and one json file using Union:

```python
a_composite_element = Etype.Union(Etype.Json, Etype.Image)("a_composite_element", ["path/to/file.json", "path/to/file.png"])
```

I've also added a more modular way to add new etypes, similar to the way that
analyser and elements work. Any .py file in [lib/etypes](src/lib/etypes) will
be treated as a custom etype, and will be made available through the `Etype`
namespace in the way detailed above. Custom etypes need only inherit from the
`Et` class (from lib.common.etypes), and define a `filter` function that is run
on construction to filter out certain paths.

This means that custom code which deals with specific etypes (i.e., media of
particular structures produced during mtriage workflows) can be better
encapsulated as static methods on the custom etypes, as is done in
[cvjson.py](src/lib/etypes/cvjson.py).

## Cycle 3
We're fast-tracking towards cloud deployments, but will also try to merge some
of the outstanding PRs that have been on hold due to this rewrite.
