# Parallisation and carrying 

The past two weeks has seen two additions to mtriage:
1. Parallelisation by default of `Analyser.analyse` and `Selector.retrieve`.
2. A generic and optional 'carry' flag that can be passed via analyser config
   to copy files from an element's base folder to its destination.

### [#122: Parallelisation](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage/pull/122)
Huge thanks to @ivansafrin for the major part of this PR. In my mind,
parallelising the two major computationally intensive operations,
`retrieve` for the selecting phase and `analyse` for the analysis phase, adds
a real reason to adopt mtriage as a framework, rather than writing your own
custom scripts. 


Applying `retrieve_element` from a selector, or `analyse_element` from an analyser 
is, because of the way mtriage is conceived, always self-contained; and 
therefore easy to parallelise. The idea of an element as a folder that contains
a set of similarly typed elements is the geist of mtriage as a framework.
Selectors are functions that create elements, and analysers are functions
that process them (to create new elements). 

When looking to apply computational logic on media at scale, packing media into
elements through mtriage allows developers to focus on the important and
innovative logic that is being applied, and forget about the redundant code
that reads and writes files in for loops. 

Parallelising these operations means that now, not only does mtriage take the
burden of necessary redundancy from the developer, it also does so in a way
that enables code to run a lot more efficiently across multiple CPUs. This is
a huge boon for us at FA.


### [#140: Adding the 'carry' option](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage/pull/140)
This is a continuation of work I had been doing before introducing these
updates making mtriage's type system more flexible, and so less coupled to its
inaugural (computer vision) workflow.

Prior to this PR, if an analyser further down the chain in a workflow needed a 
file in a selector's original element, the first analysers had to encode that 
logic in their `analyse_element` function, and copy the files over.

Not only did this make analyser encapsulation bad, it also meant that analysers 
tended towards convoluted out types such as `JsonAnnotatedImageArray`.

The carry flag solves both of these problems by offloading the work and
specification of copying files during analysis to mtriage config, which makes
a lot more sense that baking it into analysers themselves.

## Cycle 2

This cycle begins February 16th, and will end on February 29th. There have been
a [couple](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage/pull/139) of [community contributions](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage/pull/135) that I am 
looking to merge. Otherwise, this cycle will focus on improving developer
experience in general, and on writing templates and documentation for creating
new components (analysers and selectors) in particular, as well as fixing some
critical bugs in the Youtube selector.
