Some components require a little extra config, such as creating an account for a platform or API and configuring mtriage with credentials, and the youtube selector is an example of this. Read and follow the instructions in the [youtube setup](components/youtube.md) doc, and then return here to continue.

Once you've configured mtriage with youtube credentials, you can run the following command to select some sample media to use the [youtube](../src/lib/selectors/youtube) analyser via the config listed above:

```bash
./mtriage run examples/youtube.yaml
```

After running the command, you should start seeing logs indicating that a scrape has been successful and that videos are being downloaded. Once this command has finished, we can sample frames from the downloaded videos using the following config:

```yaml
folder: media/demo_official
phase: analyse
module: frames
config:
  elements_in:
    - youtube
  fps: 1
```

This config specifies that, using the 'media/demo_official' folder as a work directory (in which we just ran the Youtube selector), and the elements created from the 'youtube' selector as input, run the frames analyser. We can run this using the following command:

```bash
./mtriage run examples/frame.yaml
```

Finally we will use the 'yolov3' analyser to detect objects in the frames just sampled. This is the config:

```yaml
folder: media/demo_official
phase: analyse
module: yolov3
config:
  elements_in:
    - youtube/frames
```

Voila! If you look inside media/demo_official/youtube/derived/yolov3, you should see a set of folders that contain JSON files that contain a set of labels, scores, and frame numbers. In practice, you shouldn't need to dive inside mtriage working directories in this way, as you can use [mtriage-viewer](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage-viewer) to easily visualise the elements produced by various elements.

TODO: add link to mtriage-viewer tutorial.
TODO: add another section explaining how to chain all three passes using the meta analyser.
