# Why Mtriage?

Recent advances in deep learning make it a very powerful technique when analysing visual and audio media. The state of the art in object detection in images performs comparably to humans, and the recognition of speech and other audio signatures is also impressively effective. Due to these capabilities, deep learning has the potential to dramatically effect the scale on which human rights organisations can track and monitor weapons, trade, and other objects that signify possible human rights abuses.

In practice, however, using machine learning in human rights research is difficult. The state of tooling is such that it is difficult to use for anyone who does not have a background in software development. Even if the simple aim is to run a pretrained classifier for object detection on an image, there is often a lot of installation pain and indirection in online resources. On top of this, to deploy classifiers at scale, analysing thousands of videos rather than just one image, a lot of custom plumbing is required. Human rights researchers do often not have the resource to employ an in-house software developer for this plumbing, which effectively means that human rights research rarely uses machine learning. At best, it is limited to a few organisations who have the technical resource to deploy custom software infrastructure, or who can partner with data science firms to do so.

We developed mtriage to address the insufficiency in machine learning tooling for human rights research, with the hope that it can democratise the use of machine learning-- and also other more advanced computational analytic techniques. In the first instance, it provides both pretrained object detection classifiers, as well as the means to use them to analyse public domain media. Mtriage is structured modularly: we intend to add new classifiers, and to support new sources and kinds of public domain media, as we develop these capabilities for ongoing and future Forensic Architecture investigations.

Mtriage is open source and in active development. This means that everyone can not only use mtriage in their own research, but also that community contributions (of a new classifier, or a new media source) can potentially be made available to all other users as upstream contributions.

To get started with mtriage, check out [Getting Started](docs/getting-started.md).